( swelling, dramatic
theme playing )
( thunder rumbling )
( grunts )
( explosion )
( breathes heavily )
( groans and grunts )
Oh!
( gasps loudly )
No!
( exhales and groans )
( breathes heavily )
There she is.
( panting )
( blows )
( spits )
( breathing heavily )
There she is.
( gasps )
( panting )
( swelling, dramatic theme
playing )
( man speaking indistinctly )
( inhales and exhales deeply )
( crying )
( baby gasps )
( ominous, swelling theme
playing )
( grunts )
( sucks teeth )
( dramatic theme playing )
( oil bubbling )
( cries )
( gasping )
( panting )
( whimpers )
( cries )
DANIEL:
Ladies and gentlemen,
I've traveled over half
our state to be here tonight.
I couldn't get away sooner
because my new well
was coming in at Coyote Hills,
and I had to see about it.
That well is now flowing
at 2,000 barrels,
and it's paying me an income
of $5,000 a week.
I have two others drilling,
and I have 16
producing at Antelope.
So, ladies and gentlemen,
if I say I'm an oilman,
you will agree.
Now, you have
a great chance here,
but bear in mind you can lose
it all if you're not careful.
Out of all men that beg
for a chance to drill your lots,
maybe one in 20
will be oilmen.
The rest
will be speculators,
that's men trying to get
between you and the oilmen
to get some of the money
that ought, by rights,
come to you.
Even if you find one that has
money and means to drill,
he'll maybe know nothing
about drilling.
He'll have to hire the job
out on contract,
and then you're depending
on a contractor,
who'll rush the job through
so he can get another contract
just as quick as he can.
This is the way
that this works.
MAN 1:
Well, what is your offer?
We're wasting time.
( people chattering )
MAN 2: Please.
I do my own drilling.
And the men that work for me
work for me,
and they are men I know.
I make it my business to
be there and to see their work.
I don't lose my tools
in the hole
and spend months
fishing for them.
I don't botch
the cementing off
and let water in the hole
and ruin the whole lease.
I'm a family man.
I run a family business.
This is my son and my partner,
H.W. Plainview.
We offer you
the bond of family
that very few oilmen
can understand.
I'm fixed like no other
company in this field,
and that's because my Coyote
Hills well has just come in.
I have a string of tools
all ready to put to work.
I can load a rig onto trucks
and have them here in a week.
I have business
connections,
so I can get the lumber
for the derricks.
Such things go by friendship
in a rush like this.
And this is why I can guarantee
to start drilling
and to put up the cash
to back my word.
I assure you,
ladies and gentlemen,
no matter what the others
promise to do,
when it comes to the showdown,
they won't be there.
( people arguing loudly )
MAN:
Sit down!
Sit down,
you have no right--
( indistinct arguing
continues )
PRESCOTT:
Let us discuss what the man
has to say--
MAN:
Prescott, you trust this man?
PRESCOTT:
Discuss what he has to say.
There's logic
to what he's saying.
( loud overlapping chatter )
Two or three years?
It could be ten years!
MAN 2:
We gain nothing
by losing our heads!
Look at that well
out there!
MAN 3:
Nobody's losing their heads--
You have no business
being here!
Sit that woman down,
sir!
Sit down!
PRESCOTT:
Mr. Plainview!
Please, Mr. Plainview.
No, Mr. Plainview!
No, where are you going?
DANIEL:
I don't need the lease.
Thank you.
PRESCOTT:
But we need you to begin--
DANIEL:
Too much confusion.
Thank you for your time.
PRESCOTT:
No, no. There's no confusion--
I wouldn't take the lease
if you gave it to me
as a gift.
DANIEL:
Mr. Bankside, I'm not gonna
waste your time.
I'd certainly appreciate it
if you didn't waste mine.
Now, if you wish
to sign with me,
we can have a well drilling
within ten days.
Your lot is further north
from the discovery well up here,
and so, well, that means we'll
probably have to dig deeper.
And if there's as much oil here
as I think there is,
it'll be harder to reach,
but once we find it,
we can take it right out.
We have to act quickly,
because very soon
these fields'll be dry.
I need you to know
what you wanna do.
Now, because of the distance
from the discovery well,
I'll pay you a smaller royalty
than you'd get down there,
but I'm prepared to give you
a $1,000 bonus on your lot.
MR. BANKSIDE:
What kind of royalty
are you talking about?
One-sixth, plus a guarantee to
start drilling within ten days.
Now, that's something
you won't find anywhere else.
What age are your
children, ma'am?
MRS. BANKSIDE:
Ten and 12.
Mr. Plainview,
a question, sir.
Where is your wife?
She died in childbirth,
Mrs. Bankside,
so, uh, it's just me
and my son now.
OIL FIELD WORKER 1:
It's coming in, boss!
OIL FIELD WORKER 2:
You hear it?
( rumbling )
Mr. Plainview?
DANIEL:
Yes?
Are you Daniel Plainview?
DANIEL:
Yes.
What can I do for you?
PAUL:
You look for oil.
That's right.
What do you pay
for a place that has it?
Well, that depends.
What does it
depend on?
On a lot of things.
If I told you
I knew a place
that had oil where land
could be bought cheaply,
what do you think
that would be worth?
Oh, I think that, uh...
( clears throat )
...you should let me know
what you know,
and then we'll try
and work something out.
Can I sit down?
Please.
What church
do you belong to?
I, uh...
I enjoy all faiths.
I don't belong to
one church in particular.
I like them all.
I like everything.
Where are you from?
That would be
telling you.
That's what
I wanna sell you.
What are you doing
in Signal Hill?
We have oil, and it seeps
through the ground.
Do you wanna pay me
to know where it is?
Well, just because there's
something on the ground
doesn't mean
there's anything beneath it.
Why did Standard Oil
buy up land?
Is it in California?
Maybe.
How much land
did they buy?
I'd like it better if you didn't
think I was stupid.
DANIEL:
Why'd you come to me?
You just brought
this well in.
DANIEL:
That's right.
Yes. So just give me $500
in cash right now,
and I'll tell you
where it is.
DANIEL:
I'll tell you what I'll do, son.
I'll give you
a hundred dollars now,
and if it proves to be
a promising lease,
then give you
a $1,000 bonus.
Six hundred dollars.
Just tell me one thing
to help me decide.
What else have you got up there?
What do you grow?
We have a big ranch,
but it's mostly rocks.
Plant things.
Nothing'll grow but weeds.
What makes you think
it's up?
Is there sulfur around?
Or alkali deposits?
Alkali nearby.
I don't know sulfur.
Is that your son?
Yes.
Hi.
Who are you?
I'm Fletcher Hamilton.
Nice to meet you, son.
What's your name?
PAUL:
What do you do?
I work with Mr. Plainview.
Here's $500, son.
You tell me something worth
hearing, this money's yours.
I come from a town
called Little Boston,
in Isabella County.
This is us, here.
Spur station here
at Little Boston.
The Sunday ranch
is what you're looking for.
There's a sheep trail
that takes you there.
It's a mile out of town
headed west. Not far.
Just through
a small pass here,
near the base
of the hills.
You'll pass a church
and just follow the sheep trail.
Where's Standard
buying up?
Here and here.
Your family name
is Sunday, yes?
That's right.
How many's in your family?
My father and mother
and sisters and my brother Eli.
How many sisters
do you have?
Two.
What's your name?
Paul.
Does any of your family know
about the oil you say is there?
I don't know.
My uncle always said
there was oil there,
but I don't know what they heard
or what they think.
What do you grow?
It's goats.
Uh, it's a goat farm.
I told you,
nothing grows but weeds.
Is there water?
It's salty.
You drill a well,
it's hard not to get saltwater.
The oil is there.
I'm telling you.
I want to go now, so...
Uh, you can stay
tonight.
No, uh, I wanna go now.
I wanna leave.
Listen, Paul.
If I travel
all the way out there
and I find that
you've been lying to me,
I'm gonna find you and I'm gonna
take more than my money back.
Is that all right
with you?
Yes, sir.
All right, then.
Nice luck to you.
God bless.
And to you,
young man.
( dramatic theme playing )
MARY:
There's someone coming.
MAN:
I think you're right.
Good evening.
DANIEL:
My name is
Daniel Plainview.
This is my son, H.W.
Are you hunting?
DANIEL: Hunting for quail.
We're told there might be
a good place to camp
up near the Sunday ranch.
This is the Sunday ranch.
You can camp here.
Thank you.
Do you have water?
Yes.
We heard there was an earthquake
up here a few days ago.
Is that right?
Yes.
Your family?
Yeah, all fine,
thank you.
We have goat's milk,
if you'd like.
That'd be fine.
( sighs )
Now, uh...
if we set our tent
away over there,
we'd be out of your way
over there.
That's fine.
Ruth, help these men
and bring them some water.
No! H.W.
Mr. Plainview, would you like
that milk now?
That'd be fine,
thank you.
Mary, bring them
some milk.
My family will help you
set up your tent.
No, please. We set ourselves
on this camping trip.
We have to do
the camping.
Hurry up!
Do you have bread?
We have potatoes.
Potatoes would be nice.
Thank you.
I'll have them boil
you up some potatoes.
That's all right. I thought
maybe we'd make a fire.
I wanted to work with my son
on making a fire.
All right. My son Eli
will bring you some wood.
Thank you so much for
your hospitality, Mr. Sunday.
Yes.
And we'll be out of your way.
We're just hunting for quail.
Yes.
( grunts )
I'm sorry we don't have
any bread.
No, no, no.
Corn just doesn't fill out
in the hills here.
It's mostly rock.
We don't have room
to raise the grain.
Thank you,
young lady.
My name is Eli.
Yes, you're, uh,
Eli Sunday.
Welcome.
H.W.
Eli.
You're hunting quail?
That's right.
( sighs )
We will bring dinner.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
( dramatic theme playing )
( gunshots )
Dad!
Dad, look at my shoe.
That's earthquake oil.
Set loose.
( laughs )
( breathes heavily )
DANIEL:
So...
H.W.:
So?
DANIEL:
So, so.
If there's anything here,
we take it to the sea.
What we do is we build
a pipeline to Port Hueneme
or Santa Paula--
It's about a hundred miles--
and we do a deal
with Union Oil.
This is what we do.
Then we don't need
the railroads
and their shipping costs
anymore.
Do you see?
Yeah.
You see that?
Yes.
Then we're making money.
We're making the real money
that we should be making,
not just-- Not just throwing
it away on shipping costs.
Otherwise,
it's just mud.
How much are we
gonna pay them?
Who's that?
( sighs )
The Sunday family.
Well, I'm not gonna
give them oil prices.
I'll give them
quail prices.
If we could have a few minutes,
there's something I'd very much
like to talk
with you about.
Mother, would you take
the girls outside, please?
Well, uh, I believe
in plain speaking, so...
This is a beautiful ranch.
I love hunting for quail.
My boy's been sick,
you know.
He needs fresh air.
Doctors all say he needs
plentiful fresh air.
So...
what would you say would be
a fair price for this lot, Abel?
To buy this place?
That's right.
( sighs )
Uh...
Take a moment.
I'm sorry.
I don't know.
Six dollars an acre.
Six dollars?
Thank you, Eli.
And with the improvements to the
ranch over the years at $500--
I'd like to offer you
$3,700 for this ranch.
That's $3,700.
No.
The Lord has sent
this man here, Eli.
Yes, I believe he has.
My offer
to you is $3,700.
What is it that
brought you here, sir?
The Good Lord's guidance.
Now, of course, within that,
we're gonna develop a lease.
What's that?
What about our oil?
What about it?
We have oil here.
That's worth something.
Oh, do you have someone
who can drill for it?
Do you think
there's oil here?
I know there is.
It's very expensive to drill.
You know, to get it up
and out of the ground.
You ever tried that before?
How much is it?
Costly.
Well, our oil
sits right up
on top of the ground.
I believe that's called
"seepage."
Doesn't necessarily mean
there's anything underneath.
What would you give us
for it?
I don't know.
Something you don't know.
That's right.
What would you like, Eli?
Ten thousand dollars.
For what?
For my church.
That's good.
That's a good one.
Well, uh, hmm...
if we decide to drill for oil,
and if the well
begins to produce,
I'll give your church
a $5,000 signing bonus.
ELI: Ten thousand.
Do you wanna find someone else
that's gonna come up here
and drill, Eli?
Make the investment
and do all the hard work
that goes into it?
I can just as easily hunt
for quail on another ranch
as I can here, so, uh--
Though I'll happily be
a supporter of your church
for as long as I can.
For the bonus only.
Now, as it happens,
I do have some connections
in the drilling business
who might help get us started.
How do you feel
about this, Abel?
Yes. What Eli says.
Well, good. Let's draw up
some contracts and let's--
Let's give it a try.
Appreciate your help
with this, Eli.
Good afternoon.
MAN: Good afternoon.
Real estate?
Yes.
Yes, I'd like to talk to you.
I'm looking for some land.
I just bought
the Sunday ranch.
And, uh, well,
where's the map?
Where are the hills
behind the Sunday ranch?
That's here.
It's the Bandy tract.
He has over 600 acres.
Bandy.
Six hundred.
What about this?
A.C. Maude,
Blodget, Redlick, Carr.
What's it held at?
Six dollars an acre.
Six.
What about this?
That's the Belvins,
and that could be got, I'm sure.
Can everything around here
be got?
Sure.
( dramatic theme playing )
Well, Paul Sunday turned out
to be a good friend of ours.
That's right.
Well, you get here
just as soon as you can.
Bring Fred English.
Good enough.
Thank you, porter.
H.W., how are you?
H.W.: Fine, and you?
GENE:
Pretty good. Where's your dad?
You fellas are a long way
from Signal Hill.
GENE:
Hello, Plainview.
Hello, Gene.
Good to see you.
Charlie.
On your way somewhere else?
Oh, passing through.
Looking around.
Funny to see you.
Funny, isn't it?
You boys are a regular
family business.
You boys are a little late.
What'd you find?
I found some
interesting prospects.
Hmm. Did you hear
Standard bought up?
Mostly in the north, so far.
That's what I hear.
If you're gonna make a play,
look east.
I'd rather it be you
than someone else, you know.
This mud around here
has been taken.
It must be easy
when you have such a cute face
to carry around with you.
Telling me
how handsome my son is?
GENE:
Well, that I am.
That's very nice.
Thank you.
Good luck, Gene.
Like I said, go east.
H.W.
I'll be your lawyer if you
need to draw up a contract.
Make sure you don't
get swindled, boy.
Get half
what your dad's making.
( classical theme playing )
How's that?
What are those men
doing?
They're just guys
that are working for us.
They're just
looking around.
How much money
can we make?
I don't know.
It depends.
One thousand dollars?
Mary said that her father
beats her if she doesn't pray.
Mary, she's the, uh,
smaller one?
Yes, she is.
Everyone here?
AL:
Very successful.
But?
There were a few vacant lots
and one holdout.
Who?
William Bandy.
( whispers ):
...eight.
( in normal voice ):
Who's he?
An old man
who homesteaded here.
Lives with his grandson.
He'd like to speak with you.
Oh, is he here?
No, he'd like you
to come visit with him.
He's boosting
his price.
He said he'd like to speak with
whoever is doing the buying.
Well, let him wait.
He'll come around.
Let's go.
( people chattering
indistinctly )
Ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen,
thank you so much for visiting
with us this evening.
Well, I've traveled across
half our state to be here
and to see about this land.
DANIEL:
Now, I daresay some of you
might have heard some of
the more extravagant rumors
about what my plans are,
so I just thought
you'd like to hear it from me.
This is the face.
It's no great mystery.
I'm an oilman...
ladies and gentlemen...
FLETCHER: Okay, jump in, boys.
I have numerous concerns
spread across this state.
I have many wells flowing at
many thousand barrels per day,
so I like to think of myself
as an oilman.
As an oilman,
I hope that you'll forgive
just good old-fashioned
plain speaking.
Now, this work that we do
is very much
a family enterprise.
Uh, I work side by side
with my wonderful son, H.W.
I think one or two of you
might have met him already.
And, uh,
I encourage my men
to bring their families
as well.
Of course, it makes for
an ever so much more
rewarding life for them.
Family means children,
and children means education.
So, wherever we set up camp,
education is a necessity,
and we're just so happy
to take care of that.
So let's build a wonderful
school in Little Boston.
These children are the future
that we strive for,
and so they should have
the very best of things.
Now, something else, uh,
and please don't be insulted
if I speak about this: bread.
Let's talk about bread.
Now, to my mind, uh,
it's an abomination
to consider that any man,
woman, or child
in this magnificent
country of ours
should have to look upon
a loaf of bread as a luxury.
We're gonna dig
water wells here,
and, uh, water wells
means irrigation.
Irrigation
means cultivation.
We're gonna raise crops here
where before it just
simply wasn't possible.
You'll have more grain than
you'll know what to do with,
and bread'll be coming
right out of your ears, ma'am.
New roads,
agriculture,
employment, education.
These are just a few
of the things we can offer you,
and I assure you,
ladies and gentlemen,
that if we do find oil here,
and I think there's
a very good chance that we will,
this community of yours
will not only survive,
it will flourish.
I'd be happy to answer any
questions that you might have.
Will the new road
lead to the church?
Well, that'll be the first
place that it leads.
Thank you, Eli.
Anyone else?
Well, if anything comes up,
I'm pretty easy to find.
You just come visit with me.
Thank you so much
for your time, and good night.
( dramatic theme playing )
CONGREGATION:
What a friend we have
In Jesus
All our sins
And griefs to bear
What a privilege
To carry
Everything to God
In prayer
What a privilege
To carry
Everything to God
In prayer
( men chattering indistinctly
ELI:
Just follow the new road
back to the church.
The new road
will lead you there.
Hello, brother,
my name is Eli.
The Church of the Third
Revelation welcomes you.
Hello, brother,
my name is Eli.
The Church of the Third
Revelation welcomes you.
Just follow the new road
right to the church.
( dramatic theme playing )
CONGREGATION:
Give to the Lord in prayer
Are we weak
And heavy-laden
Cumbered with
A load of care
Daniel, may I
speak with you?
Yes, come in.
I'll bring them up
when they arrive.
Good morning.
How is all
the work coming?
Everything's good.
All the men
are provided for?
Of course.
Spirits seem high.
Is there anything
that you need from me?
Anything the church
can do for you?
I don't believe so.
No. Thank you.
I understand
you've asked the people
to gather around and watch
the well begin tomorrow,
is that right?
That's right.
I will bless the well.
Before you begin,
you should introduce me.
You'll see me walk up towards
the oil well, and when I--
The derrick.
You'll see me walk up,
and then you could say my name.
When you walk up?
Yes. You'll see me walk up,
and then you could say,
"The proud son of these hills
who tended
his Father's flock."
And then you could
say my name.
That's fine.
ELI:
And what happens then?
Well, then we start
the drill.
It's a simple blessing,
Daniel, but an important one.
It's just a few words.
It won't take long.
What time?
DANIEL:
What time's good for you, Eli?
Four o'clock.
Well, let's make it
four o'clock then.
My thanks for your visit.
ELI:
Good day. Thank you.
( indistinct chattering )
DANIEL:
Afternoon, everyone.
Come with me.
I thank you all so much for
visiting with us at this time.
I've had the pleasure
of meeting some of you,
and I hope very much
in the months to come,
I'll be able to visit
with each and every one of you.
I'm better at digging holes in
the ground than making speeches,
so let's forget the speech
for this evening,
just make it
a simple blessing.
You see, one man doesn't
prospect from the ground.
It takes a whole community
of good people,
such as yourselves,
and, uh, this is good.
We stay together.
We pray together,
we work together,
and if the Good Lord
smiles kindly on our endeavor,
we share in the wealth
together.
Now, before we spud
in Mary's Well Number One,
named for the lovely Miss Mary
Sunday here by my side,
a proud daughter
of these hills,
I'd just like to say God bless
these honest labors of ours,
and of course
God bless you all.
Amen.
Now go.
Won't be a minute.
Fast as you can, H.W.
( loud hissing )
FLETCHER:
Are you ready to do this?
( loud hissing continuous )
( machinery grinding )
That's it,
ladies and gentlemen.
( all applaud )
Uh, Al Rose has very
generously provided
some refreshments for this
occasion out of his own pocket.
Thank you, Al.
If you'll all just care
to help yourselves,
I'll be back in a minute.
( upbeat classical theme
playing )
Mary-- Oh!
Mary Sunday.
Now, do you like
your new dress?
Yes. Thank you.
You're welcome.
I thought you'd like it.
Are you happy
I came here?
Yes.
Your daddy doesn't
hit you anymore, does he?
Does he now?
Better not, right?
I'll take care of you.
No more hitting, right?
No more hitting.
Now go.
Go and play some more
and don't come back.
( door squeaking open )
FLETCHER: Daniel?
( door closing )
It's okay, H.W.
Go back to sleep.
Go on. Go back to sleep.
Go on.
Daniel.
( deep breathing )
Daniel!
( exhales )
( gasps )
What?
Lost a man down the well.
( sighs )
What man?
Joe Gundha.
( sighs )
Did I know him?
No.
What happened?
OIL FIELD WORKER 1:
Set the brake.
JOE: Tie it down.
OIL FIELD WORKER: Tie it on.
( grunts )
OIL FIELD WORKER:
Shit.
Oh, goddamn it.
Where's the body?
FLETCHER:
They're fishing it out now.
All right.
( breathes heavily )
Where's the bit?
FLETCHER:
It's on the deck.
( door closes )
Clean him up.
Put some clothes on him.
And...
set up a tent.
Anyone goes down
into the cellar,
you tell somebody.
Yes?
OIL FIELD WORKERS:
Yes, sir.
( exhales )
Shut down till midday.
ELI:
I went to my room
to thank God
what he had given all of us.
And I had a vision.
Yes, last night,
I had a vision,
and I felt God's breath
move through me.
And it rolled
down into my stomach.
It sloshed around,
and my stomach spoke
in a whisper,
not a shout.
"Touch this woman
with your hands and caress her."
My dear Mrs. Hunter,
you have arthritis,
don't you?
Yes, I do, Eli.
Yes.
( audience murmuring )
The devil is in your hands,
and I will suck it out.
Now, I will not cast
this ghost out with a fever,
for the new spirit inside me
has shown me
I have a new way
to communicate.
It is a gentle whisper.
Get out of here,
ghost.
WOMAN 1 ( whispering ):
Cast out.
Get out of here,
ghost.
MAN 1:
Out.
WOMAN 2:
Power to the...
Get out.
Get out of here,
ghost.
WOMAN 2:
...Jesus cast these demons...
Get out of here,
ghost.
Get out of here, ghost.
Get out of here.
Don't you dare turn around
and come back.
For if you do,
all the armies of my boot
will kick you
in the teeth,
and you will be cast up
and thrown in the dirt
and thrust back to perdition!
And as long as I have teeth,
I will bite you,
and if I have no teeth,
I will gum you!
And as long as I have fists,
I will bash you!
Now, get out here, ghost!
Get out of here, ghost!
( snarls and yells )
And it left!
( people shouting
indistinctly )
MAN:
Praise the Lord and his
holiness.
Amen!
ELI:
My dear Mrs. Hunter.
Dance with me.
ALL:
Aww.
Thanks for coming.
It was a wonderful
sermon.
Will I see you tomorrow?
Yes.
Eli.
Tragedy at the well
last night.
Yes, I heard.
Joe Gundha was a man
of considerable faith.
So if you wish to say
a few words,
his burial's
at noon tomorrow.
Daniel, this accident
could have been avoided.
It is terrible
to think of that well--
Yes, it could have. These men
work in 12-hour shifts.
...unblessed...
They need rest.
If they don't have it,
they make stupid mistakes.
I've seen some
of the men drinking.
We need these men well-rested
to bring in this well.
They can't get that
if they're up here
listening to your gospel,
and then the well can't produce
and blow gold
all over the place.
I wish I had more time
with Joe Gundha.
More could have been done.
Then the well can't produce
and blow gold
all over the place.
Now, would you see to it that
his personal possessions, uh,
find their way back
to his family, please?
Thank you.
Heard you were planning
some renovations.
Yes, our congregation
is growing strongly.
We need more room.
Well, that was
one goddamn hell of a show.
We were happy
to have you, Daniel.
( dramatic theme playing )
( distant hissing )
Gas, gas, gas!
( explosion )
Lights out! Wait here.
Wait here. Lights out!
( H.W. screaming )
Put that fire out!
( indistinct shouting )
( Daniel shouting indistinctly )
DANIEL:
Is he hurt?
( man shouting indistinctly )
( no audio )
Hand him down!
Here!
Hand him down to me!
You got him?
I've got him!
DANIEL:
Uh... Oh, God.
( percussion theme playing )
( men shouting indistinctly )
Come on.
( breathes heavily )
Open the door.
( men shouting )
Let go. Let go. You're safe.
You're safe.
You're safe now.
I got you here.
You're safe.
Let go, son. Let go.
Now, tell me
where it hurts.
Tell me where it hurts.
Tell me where--
Did you see this?
MAN: No.
Tell me where it hurts.
Where does it hurt you?
I can't hear my voice.
Were you hit
in the head?
( louder ):
Were you hit in the head?
Tell me! You have to tell me
if you were.
I can't hear my voice.
( explosion )
( men shouting )
I have to go
and deal with this now.
You wait here for me.
You understand?
I'll be back.
I'll be back in a minute.
You wait here.
Don't leave!
I'm gonna take care of you.
Wait. Stay here.
Stay here, son.
I'm gonna fix this.
Don't leave!
You're gonna be fine!
Wait for me here!
Hold him down.
Don't leave!
FLETCHER:
Gotta break the cables, Daniel!
( all shouting )
DANIEL: Get me a hammer!
Get me a hammer!
Okay, here you go.
DANIEL:
Get back!
( percussion theme
continuous )
Michael!
MICHAEL: Sir!
Take Dave and two of the fellas
up to the hole.
MICHAEL: Yes, sir.
Billy, protect the roof.
Don't wait
till it gets too hot.
What are you looking
so miserable about?
There's a whole ocean of oil
under our feet!
No one can get at it
except for me.
( laughs )
H.W. okay?
No, he isn't.
Where is he?
Mess room.
( explosion )
( both humming )
( off-key humming )
That's enough now.
That's enough, H.W.
That's enough.
( humming )
Do you hear me?
Can you hear me in there?
( humming continuous )
That's enough.
( men speaking indistinctly )
DOCTOR:
Grab his legs.
I have his legs.
DANIEL:
No. Nope.
DOCTOR:
No, lad.
( grunts )
Give me that.
DANIEL: Steady. That's it.
DOCTOR: Easy, boy. Easy.
DANIEL: Soon be over.
DOCTOR: Yeah, and that's good.
Now the other side.
Turn him over.
Almost done.
( whispering indistinctly )
DANIEL:
Uh, no. That's it.
( whispering ):
It's all right. It's over.
It's over. It's over.
It's over.
( dramatic theme playing )
( no audio )
Who do we know
in San Francisco or, um,
Los Angeles,
who could work with, uh...
( pencil scratching )
You know, we could--
Someone, a teacher for H.W.
How could you
figure out that?
Now, call, um...
Goddamn it,
what's his name?
FLETCHER:
Bob Brody in San Francisco?
Call Bob Brody
and get someone down here.
I'll do it
right away.
( dramatic theme playing )
When do we get
our money, Daniel?
Aren't you a healer?
And a vessel
for the Holy Spirit?
When are you coming over
and make my son hear again?
Can't you do that?
If you had let me bless the well
this wouldn't have happened.
FLETCHER: Daniel...
You shouldn't have done that.
( groans )
You owe the Church
of the Third Revelation
$5,000...
Oh!
...as part of the arrangement
that we made!
( shrieks )
( squealing )
Don't even try it,
you little runt!
Splash around in here.
( grunting and sputtering )
( spitting )
That's it, that's it.
( shrieks )
( grunts )
( breathing heavily )
I'm gonna bury you
underground, Eli.
I'm gonna--
( spitting and gasping )
Ho! Whoa!
I'm gonna bury you
underground.
( panting )
You are a stupid man, Abel.
You've let someone
come in here
and walk all over us.
You let him in
and do his work here,
and you are a stupid man
for what we could have had.
I followed his word, Eli.
I tried.
You didn't do anything
but sit down.
You're lazy
and you're stupid.
Do you think God is going
to save you for being stupid?
He doesn't save
stupid people, Abel.
ABEL: What are you doing?
ELI: I will tear you apart
for what you've done,
you stupid man!
How did he come here?
Do you really know?
Help. Son, don't do this--
Be quiet!
Please don't!
Be-- Shut your mouth, Abel!
It was your stupid son!
It was Paul
who told him to come here.
I know it.
He went to him and he said,
"My stupid, weak father
will give away his lots.
Go and take him."
And you let it happen.
( grunts )
( breathes heavily )
A stupid father
to a stupid son.
Get outta there!
( indistinct chattering )
Can I help you?
Daniel?
Who's that?
My name is Henry.
Yeah?
I'm Henry.
What can I do for you?
I'm Henry Plainview.
I'm from Fond du Lac.
I'm your brother.
From another mother.
Ernest is my father.
Who are you?
Henry.
Mary Branch?
Is that your mother?
Yes, sir,
that's right.
I read about your gusher
in the paper,
about your success.
You heard about
my strike?
You just show up?
Our father's dead.
Ernest died, I heard.
I wanted to find you.
When?
Three months ago.
I got a letter
from Annabelle.
My sister Annabelle?
Where is she?
Still at home.
Fond du Lac.
You came all the way
from Wisconsin to tell me this?
I'm coming from New Mexico.
I've been there.
I came to find you.
Did you know
about me?
Do you have
identification?
Do you have this--
This letter?
Where are you coming from?
From New Mexico.
Yes, I know,
but from where?
Silver City.
I've been there for two years.
I was, uh, trying drilling
of my own for years.
Getting leases in,
uh, Texas.
Louisiana.
Anything that
produced?
No.
Not like your success, no.
Are you married?
HENRY:
No.
I, uh, spent time in jail.
I had a stretch
of very bad time.
I had nothing,
was picked up in Louisiana.
I worked on a chain gang
for six months building roads.
That-- That was
a very hard time.
Are you married?
( slurps )
What were you in jail for?
Believe it or not,
for all the terrible things
I've gotten myself into,
when they picked me up,
I hadn't done anything.
But I've, uh, done my share
of things that...
( slurps )
...shouldn't be talked about.
Drink it.
Come on.
So...
what do you want,
Henry?
Nothing.
If you can spare
something,
I-- I can work for you
in any way.
I know I'll keep moving,
before long,
to get back
to Fond du Lac.
Do you have
any money?
Some.
Not much.
Just answer me directly.
You say "nothing," then you say
you'd like to stay and work.
And it's better,
I'd just like to hear you say
you'd like to be here.
I'd like to be here.
I'm a good worker.
I worked cable tool rigs,
built railroads.
I won't need
any favors.
Good.
DANIEL:
What did my mother know?
HENRY:
I don't know.
I don't know if she knew
and looked the other way,
if she never knew.
Why did you leave?
I know you didn't get on
with our father.
I worked for Geological Survey,
and, uh, went to Kansas.
I couldn't stay there.
I just couldn't.
I don't like
to explain myself.
Are you an angry man,
Henry?
HENRY:
About what?
Are you envious?
Do you get envious?
I don't think so, no.
I have a competition in me.
I want no one else
to succeed.
I hate most people.
HENRY:
That part of me is gone.
Working and not succeeding.
All my, uh...
failures have left me...
I just don't care.
Well, if it's in me,
it's in you.
There are times when I--
I look at people
and I see nothing
worth liking.
( sighs )
I wanna earn enough money
I can get away from everyone.
What will you do
about your boy?
I don't know.
( sighs )
Maybe it'll change.
Does your sound come back
to you? I don't know.
Maybe no one knows that.
Doctor might not know that.
Where's his mother?
I don't wanna talk
about those things.
I see the worst in people,
Henry.
I don't need to look past
seeing them to get all I need.
I've built up my hatreds
over the years,
little by little, and...
Having you here gives me
a second breath of life.
I can't keep doing this
on my own.
With these, uh...
people.
( laughs )
( breathes heavily )
Daniel! Daniel, wake up!
Daniel!
( breathes heavily )
( grunts )
( breathing heavily )
Just have to go and have a word
with the conductor.
I'll be right back.
You stay-- You stay here.
You understand?
You stay here.
I'll be right back.
( rumbling )
( train whistle blows )
( Fletcher speaking
indistinctly )
H.W.:
No! No!
DANIEL: Tilford!
Plainview.
This is my brother, Henry
Plainview from Fond du Lac.
Agent Tilford.
Pleasure.
Henry Plainview.
J.J. Carter.
So...
Shall we?
Yes.
How's your boy?
Thank you for asking.
TILFORD:
Is there anything we can do?
"Thanks for asking"
is enough.
So, what are your plans?
Is this about buying up
my tracts here?
TILFORD:
Yes.
The cable was about
my Coyote Hills lease.
We'd like that, too.
DANIEL:
What's your offer
on Coyote Hills?
We'll offer
a 150,000 for full title.
That's a deal.
What's next?
TILFORD:
You have 11,000 acres
in Little Boston.
You have one proven well
that was damaged--
DANIEL:
I have three wells proven.
You haven't
been paying attention.
That's three proven wells.
TILFORD:
We'll make you a millionaire
while you're sitting here
from one minute to the next.
( sighs )
And what else
would I do with myself?
TILFORD:
Are you asking me?
What else would I do
with myself?
TILFORD:
Take care of your son.
I don't know
what you would do.
If you were me, and Standard
offered to buy what you had
for a million dollars, why?
So, why?
You know why.
DANIEL: Yeah, you fellas
should just scratch around
in the dirt
and find it
like the rest of us,
instead of buying up
someone else's hard work.
I've scratched around
the dirt, son.
You gonna change
your shipping costs?
TILFORD ( laughing ):
We don't dictate shipping costs.
That's railroad business.
Oh!
You don't own
the railroads?
Of course you do.
TILFORD:
Where are you gonna put it all?
Where?
Build a pipeline? Make a deal
with Union Oil? Be my guest.
But if you can't
pull it off,
you've got an ocean of oil under
your feet with nowhere to go.
Why not turn it over to us?
We'll make you rich.
You spend time
with your boy.
It's a great
discovery.
Now, let us help you.
Did you just tell me
how to run my family?
TILFORD:
It might be more important now
that you've proven the field,
and we're offering
to buy you out.
One night
I'm going to come to you,
inside of your house
or wherever you're sleeping,
and I'm gonna
cut your throat.
What? What are you
talking about?
Have you gone crazy, Daniel?
Did you hear what I said?
TILFORD:
I heard. Why did you say it?
You don't tell me
about my son.
TILFORD:
Why are you acting insane
and threatening
to cut my throat?
You don't tell me
about my son.
TILFORD:
I'm not telling you anything!
I'm asking you
to be reasonable.
If I've offended you,
I apologize.
You'll see what I can do.
This parcel here
is the 3,000-acre ranch
owned by B.L. Harper.
This is San Luis Obispo
County land.
And from here to the coast,
it's all Union Oil.
What's this?
Why don't I own this?
That's the Bandy tract.
He was the holdout,
when we were doing the buying.
He had hoped
to speak with you.
Can't you just build
the pipeline around this tract?
Can I build around 50 miles
of Tehachapi mountains?
Don't be thick
in front of me, Al.
I can go to him again.
No. I'll go
and talk to the man.
I'll talk to him.
Show you how it's done.
All right.
Pack it up, Henry.
How big is his room?
Well, he's sharing
with another boy.
Who?
An older boy, about 12.
He's been there for a year.
Named Ballard.
How big is the room?
Oh, it's a fair size.
Got enough space.
Are you taking Henry with you
to meet Union Oil?
Are you the son
of William Bandy?
Grandson.
Is he here?
No. He's out.
Where is he?
Told you, he's out.
Now what do you want?
I'm Daniel Plainview.
I wanna talk with him
about his property.
About what?
I believe I'll talk
with him about that.
( spits )
You're that oilman, aren't you?
DANIEL:
That's right.
We don't want you
drilling out here.
Well, I don't
want it either.
Now, when'll he be back?
Few days.
Tell him I'd like to speak
with him.
Not about drilling.
And I'll be back in a week.
Go on.
( dramatic theme playing )
( all cheer and applaud )
DANIEL:
Put that one in a glass case.
Here's to Union Oil.
MAN 1:
Union Oil.
Hundred miles of pipeline
and all the independent
producers of this great state.
MAN 2:
Hey.
( gasps )
DANIEL:
There's that house
in Fond du Lac
that John Hollister built.
Do you remember it?
HENRY: Mm.
DANIEL:
I thought as a boy that was
the most beautiful house
I'd ever seen,
and I wanted it.
I wanted to live in it.
And eat in it.
And clean it.
And even as a boy,
I wanted to have children
to run around in it.
You can have anything
you'd like now, Daniel.
And you should.
Where are you
gonna build it?
Here, maybe.
Near the ocean.
Would you make it look
like that house?
I think if I saw that house now,
it'd make me sick.
We can eat
and get some women.
Take them
to the Peachtree dance.
I say get liquored up and take
them to the Peachtree dance.
Okay.
( dramatic theme swelling )
( people chattering
indistinctly )
( woman laughing )
( Henry laughing )
( laughing ):
Can I have some money, please?
( woman laughing )
Can I have some money,
please?
I want you
to tell me something.
( clears throat )
What?
What's the name of the farm
next to the Hill House?
What was the name of the farm
I-- I can't remember--
Who are you?
I'll leave, Daniel.
I'm no one.
Just let me
get up and go.
Do I have a brother?
I met a man
in King City
who said he was
your brother.
We were friends
for months.
Working in King City.
And he wanted to make his way
to you, Daniel.
We didn't have any money.
He died of tuberculosis.
He wasn't harmed.
He wasn't killed,
nothing bad.
But he told me
about you...
and I just took his story...
used his diary.
Daniel...
I'm your friend.
I'm not trying to hurt you.
Never.
Just survive.
No! No!
( gunshot )
( gasping )
( whimpering )
( dramatic theme playing )
( dramatic theme swelling )
( moans )
( sighs )
( gunshot )
Who is it?
I'm Bandy.
( breathes heavily )
Yes. Yes.
Um, William Bandy...
Yeah, I'd like
to lease your land.
I had asked for you to come
and talk to me before.
When you were
leasing land.
That's right, yes.
My boy's been
very sick, you know.
This was before
your boy got sick.
Now, I know that
you would like
to build a pipeline
through my property.
Is that right,
what I've heard?
It's absolutely right.
And, uh, well...
eight-inch pipe.
It could be buried
with your consent.
I guarantee you
absolutely no disruption--
God.
God has told me
what you must do.
And what is that, hm?
You should be washed
in the blood
of Jesus Christ.
Oh, but I-I-I am.
I have been washed, Mr. Bandy.
I am-- I have been.
It's your only way to salvation.
And your only way
for what you want.
You can take it at the Church
of the Third Revelation.
I'll pay you $3,000, hm?
I'd like you to be part
of our church.
I'll pay you $5,000.
Be baptized.
Be forgiven for this sin
that you've done.
What sin are you,
uh, referring to, Mr. Bandy?
My--
My sin of drilling?
( sighs )
ELI:
I truly wish
everyone could be saved,
don't you?
CONGREGATION:
Yes.
ELI:
I am afraid that's just
not the case.
The doctrine of universal
salvation
is a lie, is it not?
CONGREGATION: It's a lie.
It's a lie.
I wish everyone could be saved,
but they won't.
No, they won't.
You will never be saved
if you...
ALL:
Reject the blood.
ELI:
Good.
Now, is there a sinner here
looking for salvation?
A new member?
I'll ask it again.
Is there a sinner here
looking for God?
Yes.
Allow me.
ELI:
Thank you for coming,
Brother Daniel.
Thank you, Eli.
We have a sinner
with us here
who wishes for salvation.
Daniel, are you a sinner?
Yes.
Oh, the Lord
can't hear you, Daniel.
Say it to him.
Go ahead and speak to him.
It's all right.
Yes.
Down on your knees.
And to him.
Look up to the sky
and say it.
Uh, what do you want me
to say?
Oh, Daniel.
You've come here, and you've
brought good and wealth,
but you have also brought
your bad habits as a backslider.
You've lusted after women,
and you have
abandoned your child.
Your child,
that you raised,
you have abandoned
all because he was sick,
and you have sinned.
So say it now.
"I am a sinner."
I am a sinner.
ELI: Say it louder.
"I am a sinner."
I am a sinner.
ELI:
Louder, Daniel!
"I am a sinner!"
I am a sinner.
"I am sorry, Lord!"
DANIEL:
I am sorry, Lord.
"I want the blood."
DANIEL: I want the blood.
You have abandoned your child.
I have abandoned my child.
ELI:
"I will never backslide."
I will never backslide.
ELI: "I was lost,
but now I am found."
I was lost,
but now I'm found.
ELI:
"I have abandoned my child."
Say it. Say it.
I've abandoned my child.
Say it louder.
Say it louder!
I've abandoned my child!
I've abandoned my boy!
ELI:
Now beg for the blood!
Give me the blood, Eli.
Let me get out of here.
Give me the blood, Lord,
and let me get away!
ELI:
Do you accept Jesus Christ
as your Lord and Savior?
Yes, I do.
ELI: Get out of here, devil!
Out, devil!
Out, sin!
( congregation chattering )
I can feel the power
of the Lord!
Do you accept the Church
of the Third Revelation
as your spiritual guide?
Yes, I do.
Where is the power?
Get out of here!
Get out of here, ghost!
Get out of him.
Go back where you belong!
Do you accept
Jesus Christ as your savior?
Yes, I do.
( accordion being played )
MAN:
Would you be free
From the burden of sin
There's power
In the blood
( warbling )
Power in the blood
Would you o'er evil
There's the pipeline.
There's wonderful power
In the blood
There is power, power
Wonder-working power
In the blood
Of the Lord
MAN 2: Praise the Lord.
There is power, power
Wonder-working power
In the blood
Welcome to the fold,
Brother Plainview.
WOMAN 1:
It's a new day.
It's a wonderful world.
Wonderful world.
Thank you so much.
MAN 1:
Amen, brother.
( all chattering )
MAN 2:
Welcome, Brother Daniel.
God bless you.
Hallelujah.
WOMAN 2: Amen.
MAN 3:
Welcome home, brother.
MAN 4:
Welcome, brother.
ELI:
That's enough.
That's enough, now.
He must take the spirit
in on his own.
We have a new member.
CONGREGATION:
Yes.
ELI: Hallelujah.
CONGREGATION: Hallelujah.
ELI:
Mr. Plainview has been
generous enough
to make a $5,000 donation
to the church,
which we are still
waiting for.
( congregation chattering )
( Daniel inhaling
and exhaling )
DANIEL:
Oh...
Oh, that does me good.
( inhaling )
That does me good.
Welcome home, son.
FLETCHER:
This here's George Reynolds.
Teacher from the deaf school.
DANIEL:
Discipline, mind you.
Fletcher.
( grunts and pants )
Oh, you're too heavy for me.
FLETCHER:
You wanna get something to eat?
GEORGE:
Maybe.
DANIEL:
That's the pipeline, see?
All the way to the sea.
Come here.
I love you, son.
Let's take a look at you.
All right. That's it, that's it.
That's it.
Uh...
Let's get some
decent food inside of you.
That's all we need here is
a good, strong, expensive meal.
You hungry?
Waiter?
Yes, sir.
Two steaks,
a whiskey,
and water for him.
And goat's milk.
Very good, sir.
We're gonna have
this teacher help you.
He's gonna help
take care of all of this.
Understand?
Because I need you.
I need your help.
Got everything we need now
to build this company.
Come here.
( kisses )
( men chattering )
How are you?
Nice to see you.
Same to you.
Four beers...
I'll have them
right out.
Good afternoon, Daniel.
Oh, Tilford.
Good afternoon.
Hello!
H.M. Tilford!
You don't have
to shout.
Pleasure.
( men chattering indistinctly )
I believe we ordered these
drinks before those people.
I am sorry about that, sir.
I'll have your steaks
right out.
TILFORD:
That green turtle soup
is fantastic.
MAN: Is it?
TILFORD: It's delicious.
MAN:
Sounds good to me.
So, uh, ahem,
Standard offered us
a million dollars
for the Little Boston leases.
I told H.M. Tilford
where he could shove that.
And we made a deal with Union.
On the pipeline.
And that whole ocean of oil
underneath our fields.
TILFORD:
...Hundred and fifty
thousand dollars.
MAN:
Needed the money to drill.
I go out to meet him.
He's getting oil
on the property.
We're trying to make
a claim on it.
Offered him a million dollars.
Turned us down flat.
MAN 1:
Well, I'm hungry.
MAN 2:
Orange fritters,
mashed potatoes,
green peas.
All the way around.
All right.
I want you
to look over there.
Daniel, let me introduce--
Look over there. You see?
That's my son.
You see him?
Yes.
Do you see?
I see him.
You don't tell me
how to raise my family.
I told you not to tell me
Daniel...
So, what do you see?
TILFORD:
I'm very happy for you
that the deal--
DANIEL:
Yes, I made a deal with Union.
My son is happy.
He's safe.
Congratulations.
I'm taking care of him now.
Excellent.
You look like a fool,
don't you, Tilford?
Yes.
( stammering )
Yes, you do.
TILFORD:
Excuse me, gentlemen.
Oh, excuse me, gentlemen.
Excuse him, gentlemen.
I told you
what I was gonna do.
( dramatic theme playing )
Mr. Sunday. I understand you're
leaving our fair community.
Yes, I'm going
on a mission.
Where are you going?
Oildale, Taft,
and then on to Bakersfield.
MAN 1:
Well, I want you to know
that they're replacing you...
MAN 2:
Three-quarters of an hour.
MAN 1:
You done a great job for us.
ELI:
Thank you.
You will be in my prayers.
MAN 1:
I thank you very much.
JUDGE:
Union Oil Company,
Santa Paula, California.
Yes.
MAN 1:
I thank you.
( dramatic theme playing )
( minister speaking
indistinctly )
"The woman sayeth
unto him,
"'Sir, give me this water
'and I shall thirst not,
neither come hither to draw.'"
( gunfire )
( gun clicking empty )
( bullet shells jingling )
Come in, come in.
Can we be alone?
This is my closest
associate.
He hears everything.
GEORGE:
I'd prefer to speak to you
in private.
You can't speak.
So why don't you flap
your hands about
and have what's-his-name
tell me where you've been.
Or do you think
I don't know?
GEORGE:
This is hard for me to say.
I'll tell you first,
I love you very much.
I've learned to love
what I do because of you.
I'm leaving here.
I'm going to Mexico.
I'm taking Mary,
and I'm going to Mexico.
I miss working outside.
I miss the fields.
It will only be for a time.
For me to do
my own drilling...
and start my own company.
It's time
to make a change.
( growling )
This makes you
my competitor.
No. No, it's not like that.
It is like that, boy.
Your own company, huh?
That's right.
In Mexico.
GEORGE:
Yes.
You are making
such a misstep.
So, what are you doing?
GEORGE:
I know you and I have disagreed
over many things.
I'd rather keep you
as my father than my partner.
DANIEL:
Then say it.
You've got something
to say to me then say it.
I'd like to hear you speak
instead of your little dog.
Woof, woof, woof,
woof, woof, woof, woof.
I'm going to Mexico
with my wife.
I'm going away from you.
That wasn't so hard,
was it?
Killing us
with what you're doing.
You're killing my image of you
as my son.
GEORGE:
You are stubborn.
You won't listen.
You're not my son.
GEORGE:
Please don't say that.
I know you don't mean it.
Oh, it's the truth.
You're not my son.
You never have been.
You're an...
You're an orphan.
Did you ever hear that word?
Tell him what I said.
You operated here
today like one.
I should have
seen this coming.
I should have known that...
under this all
these past years,
you've been building new hate
for me piece by piece.
I don't even know
who you are
because you have
none of me in you.
You're...someone else's.
This anger,
your maliciousness.
Backwards dealings
with me.
You're an orphan
from a basket
in the middle
of the desert.
And I took you
for no other reason
than I needed a sweet face
to buy land.
Did you get that?
So now you know.
( whistles )
Look at me!
You're lower
than a bastard.
You have none of me in you.
You're just a bastard
from a basket.
I thank God
I have none of you in me.
DANIEL:
You're not my son.
Just a little piece
of competition.
Bastard from a basket.
Bastard from a basket!
You're a bastard
from a basket!
( wistful theme playing )
MAN:
Wake up, Mr. Daniel.
Mr. Daniel?
Mr. Daniel,
you've got a visitor.
Wake up, Mr. Daniel.
Sir?
You can leave us now.
( snoring )
Daniel.
Daniel Plainview's
house is on fire!
( snoring continuous )
Brother Daniel.
It's Eli.
Yes, it is.
I'll make us a drink.
Oh, your home
is a miracle.
It's beautiful.
God bless it.
I've been spreading
his word far and wide.
Far and wide.
So much travel for him.
I've been working
in radio.
Yes, so much,
so much has been
happening.
To be here
and find you,
and see you well
is wonderful.
And we have a chance
to catch up.
( clears throat )
No.
Thank you so much.
Aw.
My brother.
Daniel, my brother
by marriage.
We're such old friends.
So much time.
( slams bottle down )
( sighs )
Things go up,
things go down,
but at least the Lord
is always around.
We've seen ups and downs,
haven't we?
Are things down
for you right now, Eli?
No. No, no. No.
But I do come
with some sad news.
Perhaps you remember
Mr. Bandy?
Mr. Bandy has passed on
to the Lord.
He lived to be 99 years old,
God bless him.
Mr. Bandy
has a grandson.
Have you met his grandson,
William?
William Bandy is one
of the finest members
we have at the Church
of the Third Revelation.
He is eager to come
to Hollywood to be in movies.
He is very good-looking.
And I do think
he will have success.
That's wonderful.
Would you like me
to speak with him?
Daniel, I'm asking
if you'd like
to have business
with the Church
of the Third Revelation
in developing
this lease
on young Bandy's
1,000-acre tract.
I'm offering you to drill
on one of the great
undeveloped fields
of Little Boston.
I'd be happy
to work with you.
You would?
Yes, yes of course.
That's wonderful.
But there is one condition
for this work.
All right.
I'd like you to tell me
that you are a false prophet.
that you are,
and have been,
a false prophet.
And that God
is a superstition.
But that's a lie.
It's a lie.
I cannot say it.
When can we begin to drill?
Very soon.
How long will it take
to bring in the well?
Oh, it shouldn't
take long.
I would like a $100,000
signing bonus,
plus the five that is
owed to me, with interest.
That's only fair.
( lips smacking )
I am a false prophet,
and God
is a superstition.
If that's what you believe,
then I will say it.
Say it like you mean it.
Daniel...
Say it like it's your sermon.
Don't smile.
I am a false prophet.
God is a superstition.
Why don't you stand up?
( clears throat )
Put your glass down.
I am a false prophet.
God is a superstition.
Eli, Eli, stop.
Just imagine
this is your church here
and, uh, you have
a full congregation, so...
( louder ):
I am a false prophet.
God is a superstition.
Say it again.
I am a false prophet.
God is a superstition.
They can't hear you
at the back.
( louder ):
I am a false prophet.
God is a superstition.
Say it again.
I am a false prophet!
God is a superstition!
Say it again.
I am a false prophet!
God is a superstition!
Those areas
have been drilled.
( clears throat )
What?
Those areas,
they've been drilled.
No, they haven't.
Yes, it's, uh--
It's called drainage, Eli.
See, I own
everything around it,
so of course, uh,
I get what's underneath it.
But there are
no derricks there.
This is, uh,
the Bandy tract.
Do you understand?
Do you understand, Eli?
That's more to the point.
Do you understand?
I drink your water.
I drink it up every day.
I drink the blood of Lamb
from Bandy's tract.
You can sit down again.
( spitting )
( clears throat )
Oh, Daniel.
Please.
I am in--
I am in desperate times.
I know.
I need a friend.
Yes. Of course, you do.
I've sinned.
I need help.
I'm a sinner.
I've let the devil
grab hold of me
in ways I never imagined.
I'm so full of sin.
The Lord sometimes
challenges us, doesn't he, Eli?
Oh, yes. He does, Daniel.
Yes, he does.
Yes, he does!
( cries )
He's completely failed
to alert me
to the recent panic
in our economy,
a-a-and this...
Oh, dear.
I-I-- I must
have this, Daniel.
I must, I must,
I must, I must.
I must have this.
My investments have--
Daniel I won't bore you,
but if I could grab the Lord's
hand for help I would,
but he does these things
all the time.
These mysteries that he presents
and while we wait...
While we wait
for his word!
Because you're not
the chosen brother, Eli.
'Twas Paul
who was chosen.
You see, he found me
and told me about your land.
You're just a fool.
Why are you talking about Paul?
I did what your brother
couldn't.
Don't say this to me.
I broke you and I beat you.
It was Paul
who told me about you.
He's the prophet.
He's the smart one.
He knew what was there,
and he found me
to take it out of the ground.
Know what the funny thing is?
Listen, listen.
Listen.
I paid him $10,000,
cash in hand.
Just like that.
He has his own
company now.
Prosperous little business.
Three wells producing.
Five thousand dollars
a week.
( whimpers )
Stop crying,
you sniveling ass.
Stop your nonsense.
You're just
the afterbirth, Eli...
No.
...that slithered out
on your mother's filth.
No.
They should've put you
in a glass jar
on the mantelpiece.
Where were you when Paul was
suckling at his mother's teat?
Where were you?
Who was nursing you,
poor Eli?
One of Bandy's sows?
That land has been had.
Nothing you can do about it.
It's gone. It's had. You lose.
If you would just
take this lease, Daniel, I--
Drainage!
Drainage,
Eli, you boy.
Drained dry.
I'm so sorry.
Hey, if you have
a milkshake
and I have a milkshake
and I have a straw--
There it is. That's the straw,
you see.
Watching?
Now my straw reaches
across the room...
and starts to drink
your milkshake...
I drink your milkshake.
( makes slurping noise )
I drink it up!
Don't bully me,
Daniel!
( yells )
Did you think your song
and dance and your superstition
would help you, Eli?
I am the Third Revelation.
I am who
the Lord has chosen.
Oh! Oh! Ow! Ow!
Daniel!
Because I'm smarter
than you!
Listen, please.
I'm older!
( yells )
I'm your old friend,
Daniel!
I'm not a false prophet,
you sniveling boy!
I am the Third Revelation!
I told you
I would eat you.
We're family!
I told you I would eat you up!
We're brothers!
We're-- We're brothers!
( stammering )
Daniel, please
forgive me.
I beg you.
I'm sorry.
I beg you...
That's it.
( panting )
Mr. Daniel?
( breathing heavily )
I'm finished.
( upbeat classical theme
playing )